Instructions for TP3
========

This week you are (finally) working on your own project. 
If your group name is groupname (for instance doctor, or orbiter, etc.) then your group email is groupname@chalearn.org. It can be used to send email to all your group members, connect to your group Codalab account and your group Github account.

Steps 1 and 2 must be performed by your **group leader** only.

## Step 1: Create group Codalab account and download the starting kit

* **Test Your Group Email:**

GROUP LEADER: Send a welcome message to all your group member asking them to reply, by sending email to groupname@chalearn.org. Check that everyone received the message (if they did not reply, investigate the problem, e.g. they should check in they spam box). In case of problem, ask your teacher.

* **Create a Group Account on Codalab:**

GROUP LEADER: Go to https://codalab.lri.fr/competitions/ and create a NEW account in the name of the group, using **groupname@chalearn.org as email and groupname as login**. Use info232 as password or share the password with all your group members.

* **Download the starting kit:**

GROUP LEADER:  Go to [your competitions](http://saclay.chalearn.org/) on Codalab (e.g. group DOCTOR goes to competition HADACA). Go to the "Participate" tab, click on "Files".
Download the starting kit and the public data by clicking on "Starking kit" and "Public data".

On your local computer, create a directory for your project (replace `groupname` by your group name):
```bash
cd ~/projects
mkdir groupname 
cd groupname
mkdir public_data
cd public_data
unzip ~/Téléchargements/public_data.zip
cd ..
mkdir starting_kit
cd starting_kit
unzip ~/Téléchargements/starting_kit.zip
```

## Step 2: Create Group Github Account and a Group Repo

* **Initialize your local repo:**

GROUP LEADER:  On your local computer, initialize git:
```bash
cd ~/projects/groupname/
git init
git add starting_kit/ public_data/
git commit -m "First commit"
```
* **Initialize your remote repo:**

GROUP LEADER:  Go to https://github.com/ and create a NEW account in the name of the group, using groupname@chalearn.org as email.

Create a new repo. Name it also groupname. Do NOT initialize is with README.

On your local computer, push the contents of the starting kit to the repo:

```bash
cd ~/projects/groupname/
git remote add origin https://github.com/groupname/groupname.git
git push -u origin master
```

## Step 3: Clone the group repo

EVERYONE IN THE GROUP: Once your leader has created your github repo, you can all clone it on your computer.
(The group leader should not perform this step, as it already has a local version of the repo)

```bash
cd ~/projects
git clone https://github.com/groupname/groupname.git
```

## Step 4: Run the jupyter notebook

EVERYONE IN THE GROUP:  Run the jupyter notebook and run every cell. (You can use the option Kernel > Restart & Run All). Read carefully through the whole notebook. It provides you with an overview of the dataset and of the problem you aim at tackling.

```bash
jupyter-notebook --ip=127.0.0.1 ~/projects/groupname/starting_kit/README.ipynb
```

At the end of the notebook you should see a message similar to:
```console
Submit one of these files:
../sample_code_submission_18-12-09-21-06.zip
../sample_result_submission_18-12-09-21-06.zip
```

It means that it has successfully generated a file that you can submit to Codalab

## Step 5: Submit the sample code to Codalab

GROUP LEADER:  Go to the Codalab page of your competition (check http://saclay.chalearn.org/). Go to the "Participate" tab, click on "Submit / View Results", and submit one of the files that was generated by the notebook. After a few seconds, refresh the page and make sure that your score has successfully been computed. If yes, you have successfully made your first submission to your challenge!

